---
layout: blog/post
title: "HW21: Chapter 20"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 20 of <em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em>.
date: 2017-10-26 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

### 20.10
_**You work for a software company that has developed a system that provides information about consumers and that is used within a SoS by a number of other retail businesses. They pay you for services used. Discuss the ethics of changing the system interfaces without notice to coerce users into paying higher charges. Consider this question from the point of view of the company's employees, customers, and shareholders.**_

---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Software companies have a responsibility to communicate changes to their customers, especially larger changes such like these. Especially in this case, this is a very questionable and immoral practice. In a way, this company is holding its business partners who use its systems for ransom. If their business partners don't pay, their retail websites could stop functioning, leaving them to have to take time to find another partner. This sort of change causes definite harm to both the retailers who use the systems, and customers of those retailers. Employees of the company have a responsibility to protest these changes under the knowledge that such a change is causing direct harm to others, both in holding their websites for ransom to pay more for the upgrades, and if they don't pay, in damaging the retailer's business by virtually disabling their retail systems. This company's shareholders, I would hope, would consider these terrible ethical standards, but if not, then at least consider that such a change is likely to anger business partners, which is likely to result in lost business over time. Even if charging more for new systems, this company may find that thieir relationship with their retail partners has been permanently damages, and that will lead to lost business in the future and a damage to their reputation.