---
layout: blog/post
title: "HW24: Chapter 22"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 22 of <em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em>.
date: 2017-11-07 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

### 22.6
_**Fixed-price contracts, where the contractor bids a fixed price to complete a system development, may be used to move project risk from client to contractor. If anything goes wrong, the contractor has to pay. Suggest how the use of such contracts may increase the likelihood that product risks will arise.**_

---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="https://www.bizjournals.com/washington/blog/fedbiz_daily/2011/08/the-risks-of-fixed-price-contracts.html" target="_blank">This article from the Washington Business Journal</a> nicely describes the place of fixed-price contracts across various industries, not just in Software Engineering. The article states the following in relation to a failed fixed-price contract between the U.S. Federal Government and an airplane manufacturer building a new model A-12 Avenger II airplane:

> There is too much inherent and undefined risk when the government demands leading, if not bleeding-edge technology – often invented as part of the program’s development. Fixed-price contracts are better used in production after the manufacturing process has been put in place and tested through low-rate production.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Software Engineering is a field of change - changing frameworks, changing specifications, changing ideas - everything is constantly changing. This inconsistency is an unavoidable constant in this field, and is pretty much accepted as a symptom of this ever-evolving industry. Thinking back on <a href="{% post_url blog/csci_362_blog/2017-09-26-hw12 %}" target="_blank">my discussion of _The Mythical Man Month_</a>, Fred Brooks notes the high level of uncertainty which makes evaluating the monetary cost and labor required for software projects difficult. Throughout a software's lifecycle, specifications will change and evolve, and when they do, there has to be communication of those changes, which may also change the necessary costs of the project, both in terms of monetary cost and labor. Fixed-price contracts assume the opposite. They work best when terms are constant and cost can be fairly evaluated. If communication is lost or new specifications are needed which require more money or labor that simply isn't available to the contractor, then you end up with a failed contract, no product, and potentially years in court, as in the case of the Navy's A-12 Avenger II Airplane.
