---
layout: blog/post
title: "HW15: Chapter 15"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 15 of <em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em>.
date: 2017-10-03 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

### 15.10
_**The reuse of software raises a number of copyright and intellectual property issues. If a customer pays the software contractor to develop a system, who has the right to reuse the developed code? Does the software contractor have the right to use that code as a basis for a generic component? What payment mechanisms might be used to reimburse providers of reusable components? Discuss these issues and other ethical issues associated with the reuse of software.**_

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Software ownership is a tricky issue that has led to several large scandals and legal battles in the last few years, with the largest likely being the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oracle_America,_Inc._v._Google,_Inc." target="_blank">Oracle America, Inc. v Google, Inc.</a> case. For those unaware, this case revolved around Google's reuse of core Java API code / algorithms in a part of the Android OS. The two companies had a legal dispute over licensing of the code, and eventually it was ruled, in Google's favor, that Google's reuse of the code was considered within fair use standards. In a way, this case set a precedent for the heated debate over software copyright. It's a vague and convoluted topic where it's difficult to say who's necessarily right and wrong, and to what extent ownership applies.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When it comes to hiring a contractor to build software, this topic gets far trickier. It's difficult to say to what extent the developer has ownership of the software and to what extent the purchaser has ownership. Giving full ownership to either side creates a risky situation for the other with the potential for massive fallout if the one with ownership turned on the other. Like most things, mutual relations need to be maintained, and to best do that, each side needs to have some onwership. That being said, it's difficult to determine exact numbers for this, and in fact, it would probably vary by scenario. In general, the developers should maintain a certain percentage of control based on the fact that they developed / implemented the system. I would put this value between 40% and 50% based on my personal value of code, but others might disagree. From here, the remaining 50 - 60% should be divided based on how involved the purchasing company was in the design process for the software. If the company merely provides a concept and a some functionality details, they may receive as low as 20% share of ownership. If they provide more in-depth requirements and detailed models for the system, that number would be greater.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the case that the developer of the software wants to reuse a generic component of the system, it's again very tricky to say what point is too much. You have to be careful to consider the implications of the reused component. If the component is a minor piece of a larger system, then I don't think there is much issue in it. But if the component is a major part of a system, the implications of reuse could be much more substantial. Perhaps you're working for a company who wants you to build a survey website. Reusing that survey component (which I would consider very generic) could be a huge risk for the company that employed you to build it. In general, I don't see generic reuse as a problem, but it's something that needs to be carefully considered before being done. Like I stated earlier, there is a mutual agreement that needs to happen between a contractor and a purchaser to decide these things. Both sides have a stake in the code, and both deserve to have their intellectual property preserved.
