---
layout: post
title: "HW8: Chapter 2"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 4 of <a href="http://iansommerville.com/software-engineering-book/" target="_blank"><em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em></a> by Ian Sommerville.
date: 2017-09-14 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

### 2.1
_**Suggest the most appropriate generic software process model that might be used as a basis for managing the development of the following systems. Explain your answer according to the type of systems being developed:**_

---

_**A system to control antilock braking in a car**_

**Model:** Waterfall

**Reasoning:** An antilock braking system is likely going to be designed with a hard set of specifications from the start and few updates post-release. It's a simple software with a specific goal in mind and a narrow set of specifications. It doesn't require extensive iterations or maintenance.

_**A virtual reality system to support software maintenance**_

**Model:** Incremental Development

**Reasoning:** A system like this is likely going to have requests by users for various feature changes. It would make sense to use an iterative approach to ensure the code is robust and maintainable. Similarly, this sounds like a complex system that could require a larger development and design effort than the braking system.

_**A university accounting system that replaces an existing system**_

**Model:** Integration and Configuration

**Reasoning:** Because this system is being built as a replacement, it would benefit greatly from integrating old components and ideas from the old system to develop the new one. Combining this with an iterative approach would minimize development and design requirements but allow the system engineers to maintain robust and flexible code to keep their own system up-to-date.

_**An interactive travel planning system that helps users plan journeys with the lowest environmental impact**_

**Model:** Incremental Development

**Reasoning:** This system is likely very similar to the VR software maintenance system. It will have many users and likely many new feature requests throughout its life cycle. It would benefit greatly from iterative development.
