---
layout: blog/post
title: "HW27: Chapter 24"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 24 of <em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em>.
date: 2017-11-16 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

### 24.6
_**Explain why program inspections are an effective technique for discovering errors in a program. What types of error are unlikely to be discovered through inspections?**_

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Program inspections give developers a chance to have another person review their code and check for errors, whether logical or functional. Especially after spending many hours working with a portion of code, you can become set on how you think something should work, even if it's wrong. It can become difficult to recognize things as broad as incorrect functionality, or as small as a typo causing a syntax error. Having another person review your code gives a fresh set of eyes and an open mind to provide feedback that you might have become biased against from your own work. It's easy to become dead set on developing something a certain way, only to find out that there are most definitely other, better ways to do it. This has happened to me many times, where I work on a larger project and write a segment of code a certain way, then come back days, weeks, or even months later and think "Wow, that was really stupid. Why would I do it that way?"

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Generally, I think small syntax errors or larger incorrect functionality can be found through program inspections, but more engrained, fine-detailed logical errors can be much more difficult. Especially if the reviewer is not completely familiar with the underlying component interaction of the code you are working with, it can be difficult for them to understand and recognize when components are not working together properly or some segment of logic is incorrect.
