---
layout: post
title: "HW16: Chapter 9"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 9 of <a href="http://iansommerville.com/software-engineering-book/" target="_blank"><em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em></a> by Ian Sommerville.
date: 2017-10-05 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

### 9.8
_**Briefly describe the three main types of software maintenance. Why is it sometimes difficult to distinguish between them?**_

---

1. **Bug and Vulnerability Fixes** - This can vary greatly depending on the type of bug or vulnerability. If a minor coding error caused a problem, these can be a simple fix. However, this can also include major design bugs or implementation bugs which may require far more time and effort to fix.

2. **Environment Changes** - When some aspect of the system's environment changes, whether hardware, software, or platform, it is necessary to make the necessary updates to ensure the system is compatible with its new environment.

3. **New / Updated Features and Requirements** - This entails creating new or updating old features to meet new requirements. This tends to be the most difficult and complex part of software maintenance.

### 9.10
_**Do software engineers have a professional responsibility to develop code that can be easily maintained even if their employer does not explicitly request it?**_

---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Most certainly, yes. When building a system you should _always_ have maintainability in mind, for your own sake and for the sake of the company. When developers put maintainability and good practices first, it makes the software cheaper and easier to update in the future. And as poorly-maintainable code or systems are added, it makes future code and systems harder to make maintain, sort of like a chain reaction. It's important that maintainability starts from the ground up when it comes to building an application. It needs to start from the initial design and initial build and continue as features and requirements are added.