---
layout: blog/post
title: "HW17-B: Chapter 17"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 17 of <em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em>.
date: 2017-10-12 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

### 17.10
_**Your company wishes to move from using desktop applications to accessing the same functionality remotely as services. Identify three risks that might arise and suggest how these risks may be reduced.**_

---

1. **Security** - Especially for applications which handle sensitive or personal information, security is perhaps one of the greatest issues faced by service applications. Companies need to be vigilant of web vulnerabilities like <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_injection.asp" target="_blank">SQL Injection</a>, take precautions to limit the amount of information available to users, and ensure that proper authentication and authorization is used when sensitive information might be made available as part of the application.

2. **Quality of Service** - Web services have to deal with this challenge far more than non-distributed systems. In my personal experience, some of the biggest contributors of poor quality of service are servers and databases not properly handling asynchronous requests and poor SQL (or other database language) optimization causing extensive loading on any given page. Other factors that diminish quality of service are poor availability of services and improper management of errors.

3. **Failure Management** - System failures can be one of the most devastating parts of a service application. Failures can result in not only diminished quality of service, but can also have potentially damaging effects on data. It's essential that companies consistently backup data throughout the day and that proper auditing be used to keep track of changes to data in the case of a failure causing data to be lost.
