---
layout: post
title: "HW14: Testing Reflections"
description: Considering how we can make better testers using <a href="http://stono.cs.cofc.edu/~bowring/classes/csci%20362/docs/software.testing.introduction.pdf" target="_blank"><em>Software Testing Techniques</em></a>.
date: 2017-09-28 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Testing is probably one of the hardest parts of software engineering. To be able to test an application well requires a great deal of skill, patience, willpower, and even sometimes luck. I think that testing is probably one of the things that prospective computer scientists will have the hardest time with moving into the real world. Many students are taught that if you print your results, surely that's good testing. They aren't exposed to the idea of writing integrated unit tests and test-driven development. And even when they are, the applications they work with in school are a grain of sand on a beach compared to commercial applications. They don't experience the sheer scale of real software, and they don't experience developing true, effective test cases. I've already discussed testing motivation and issues (or, lackthereof) in <a href="{% post_url 2017-09-04-hw5 %}" target="_blank">HW5: Reflections</a> and <a href="{% post_url 2017-09-07-hw7 %}" target="_blank">HW7: Reflections</a>, so I'm going to focus more specifically on the skills of testing and, in my opinion, some of the best ways to make better testers.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Testing requires a certain skill for picking out use cases and conditions. In systems with thousands, or even millions of lines, this is a daunting task, and generally impossible for any one person. In my experience, one of the most effective practices for testing is specializing in a part of the application that you work on. The internship that I'm currently involved in has very few developers, so each of us works on various stories in the application. But through time, each of us have developed our "niche" - the section of the application that we have specific knowledge and expertise of. This specialization gives us deeper knowledge of a limited subset of the application, making it easier for us to know the many use cases and alternative scenarios that need to be tested.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But this is one of the problems with testing - it requires knowledge and expertise of not just testing processes, but the application you're testing for. I find it funny how many projects begin their new devlopers as testers. In a way, I can understand this. Most of these applications have pre-existing tests to cover core functionality, so new testers are coming in to build new tests on new features / bugs in the maintenance process. But at the same time, to be able to write better tests, these new hires need to have knowledge of both the application, and the code running it. In a massive commercial product, I can understand the difficulty of having each developer writing their own tests and specializing in certain functionality, but by doing so, it gives the developer more insight into the things they're testing.
