---
layout: post
title: "HW2: Responses"
description: A reflection comparing <a href="http://stono.cs.cofc.edu/~bowring/classes/csci%20362/docs/NoSilverBulletOriginal.pdf" target="_blank"><em>No Silver Bullet</em></a>, <a href="http://stono.cs.cofc.edu/~bowring/classes/csci%20362/docs/p32-neville-neil.pdf" target="_blank"><em>Kode Vicious</em></a>, <a href="http://stono.cs.cofc.edu/~bowring/classes/csci%20362/docs/GoogleCodeRepo-78-potvin.pdf?id=0B2El51RQ1MQnTTVWYVNiOWhuX0U" target="_blank"><em>Google Code Repo</em></a>.
date: 2017-08-27 17:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362_blog
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It's interesting reading over Frederick Brooks Jr.'s article _No Silver Bullet_ 30 years later and realizing just how much his ideas have, in a way, come to fruition. Modern compilers can compile code in mere seconds, modern languages and frameworks give developers access to thousands of packages and utilities to improve their code, and the Unified Modeling Language (UML) allows us to not only construct graphical models of our applications, but even quickly built skeleton classes and interfaces from those models. Brooks would likely never consider any of these advances his "Silver Bullet", but there is one thing that Brooks only notes in minor detail, that perhaps is quickly evolving into such it.

While reading over his article, I came across the following paragraph:
> Perhaps the biggest gain yet to be realized from proramming environments is the use of integrated database systems to keep track of the myriad details that must be recalled accurately by the individual programmer and kept current for a group of collaborators on a single system.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;What he's referring to, of course, is an early version of Version Control. As it stands, current Version Control systems have made simultaneous group development of software solutions much faster and easier. Being able to maintain a commit history and up-to-date source code has significantly eased the pains of multi-person development. And similarly, applications like Github have begun adding improved review and testing integration to their framework. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But while these tools have changed the way we collaborate as developers, there are still strides to be made. The _Kode Vicious_ article notes some of the common difficulties that still exist with many of these systems. Cherry picking, while made easier through commit history, is still very limited and often time-consuming. Adding to that, it also requires a certain degree of conformation to smaller, focused commits, which, based on personal experiences, is not standard in many repositories. Additionally, many still struggle with finding the right approach to testing - every developer's favorite aspect of software engineering. Integrated testing applications, such as <a href="https://travis-ci.org/" target="_blank">Travis CI</a> have effectively removed the burden of manually wasting hours of a day waiting as automated testing systems (another fantastic development in improving productivity), yet it's still not enough to ensure bug-free code. As the second user points to in the _Kode Vicious_ article, despite these improvements, finding, documenting, fixing, and most importantly, _**proving**_ bugs, remains a struggle.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Version Control has forever changed how we build software solutions, but in its current state, I don't know that I would call it Brooks's "Silver Bullet". However, as with just about everything these days, Google may have the solution. Google's massive code repository of, currently, 2 billion lines of code, is perhaps the ultimate test of Version Control and code management. Google's internal applications _Piper_ and _CitC_ are perhaps the cutting edge of the next stage of Version Control. Google's systems include a wide array of automated committing, reviewing, testing, and refactoring. It combines several aspects of Brooks's ideas for improving productivity all into one massive application.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_Piper_ builds upon Version Control applications such as Github by incorporating the tools necessary for ultimately dealing with the world's largest code repository. Generally development in Github is done with "branch" development, where development is largely done is separate branches from the production or "master" branch, then merged in again. _Piper_ works through what they call "trunk" development. Changes are made directly to the production source. Google maintains that this works because of their extensive array of utilities designed to check each commit for issues, automatically request reviews, test, and ultimately merge. And by doing so, Google is able to keep each developer's code base up-to-date with the latest source, without having to potentially worry about thousands of merge conflicts.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Each day, this system deals with thousands of developers across the world, managing thousands of commits to millions of lines of code, seemingly without flaw. With such power and utility, Google's toolkit of Version Control software could have the potential to one day become Brooks's "Silver Bullet" of software engineering.
