---
layout: post
title: "HW13: Chapter 8"
description: Homework questions from Chapter 8 of <a href="http://iansommerville.com/software-engineering-book/" target="_blank"><em>Software Engineering 10th Edition</em></a> by Ian Sommerville
date: 2017-09-28 10:00:00 -5EST
category: csci_362
---

### 8.7
_**Write a scenario that could be used to help design tests for the wilderness weather station system.**_

---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kyle is a ranger at the Blue Ridge, South Carolina wilderness weather station. When Kyle comes to work in the morning, the first thing he does is logs in to the system. To log in, he uses his work-provided email and password. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Once logged in, Kyle will start by checking the statuses of the satellites the system uses to monitor the weather. The system displays a list of all satellites with the status and any warnings that might be present for a malfunctioning satellite. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If there are malfunctioning satellites, Kyle clicks a button to notify the manufacturer of the system of the satellite error. The notification provides a detailed audit of the satellites recent status history and a set of error logs. If all of the system's satellites are unavailable, unable to pull a daily weather report, Kyle clicks a button to log out of the system.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After verifying the status of the satellites, assuming that there are some operational satellites, Kyle makes a request to the system to pull weather logs for the day. The system connects to the satellites, builds a model for the day, and provides a report for him to review. This report includes the overcast, temperature, humidity, precipitation, and pressure. Kyle reads over the report, then clicks another button that uses the system's API to update a weather widget on the weather station's website to display the day's weather for park visitors.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;His work now complete with the system, Kyle clicks a button to log out. He shuts down his computer and goes about his other daily tasks as a parker ranger.

### 8.10
_**A common approach to system testing is to test the system until the testing budget is exhausted and then deliver the system to customers. Discuss the ethics of this approach for systems that are delivered to external customers.**_

---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Testing a system requires very thorough processes which can be very time and resource intesive. It takes a great deal of time and effort to ensure that the application has suitable test coverage. However, there are a few issues with this approach to testing.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On one hand, a testing budget may be substantial - so much so that the testing is accomplished well before the budget runs out. In this case, the software should be provided to the customer. From this point, the testing team should be available to continue to montior any reports of bugs or issues in the application. Those issues can then be addressed by the developers and testers and patched to the system to ensure that it works as promised.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On the other hand, a testing budget may be too small. This might mean that the budget runs out before adequate testing can be done by the test team. At this point, the developer(s) should realistically request additional resources so that they can complete the testing process to ensure that the system does not have any fatal flaws. Once the team finishes the testing process, they can provide the client with the software. From there, like in the previous scenario, they should be prepared for maintenance testing and patching.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There is a third case that should be considered, which is the case where the client refuses to provide additional resources for the test team to finish their testing. This case is tricky because of the potential risks associated with releasing an untested product. Ultimately, I think the only thing the company can do is warn the customer about these risks and do their best to convince them to provide the resources needed for the system. If the customer refuses, I think it's very debatable whether or not they should provide the software. If there are known flaws which could have debastating consequences, whether in the system or for users of the system, the company may be obligated to refuse to provide the software in its current state.
